---
layout: post
title: How do I get there?
bigimg: /img/Road.jpg
image: /img/Map.jpg
tags: [Google, maps]
---

### TL:DR The use of mapping services have had a negative effect on people

“How do I get there?” is a common question that people ask when they are going places for the first time. Most people would answer this question by looking at their phones of GPS. That is a very good idea, but what if there is no connection or the battery dies in the device? The user runs into a problem. A dead device will not be helpful to the user, and they might not be able to get to their destination. Also with a dead device like a cellular device, other features such as calling or texting people would not be available. Thus being in a new place and not knowing the area, the person could be completely lost. To combat this problem, users could check to see the battery level is fully charged or close to that. Or the user could have a charger in their car for when the battery is low and have the device plugged in. These are minor changes that could save the user from a bigger problem down the road.

Another issue would be the maps aren’t up-to-date. With people relying on a digital mapping service, they will take for granted that the roads are there. Sometimes roads are under construction and are constantly changing and the mapping service is not always up-to-date. Users could miss an exit or have to go another way and waste time. People do not want to be late or waste time, so having to go the extra distance is an inconvenience. Another incident is when the service says there is a road, but there isn’t a road there. Townships have made plans for a road to be put in, but the plans never go through. Thus resulting in a road that shows up on a map that people can’t take it. This incident is another case where people could be late or waste time. To fix the problem, people could email or contact the company or service about the new road or no road. The service or business could update the maps more often or update smaller regions at a time opposed to every 1-3 years as stated by Carol Finch in “How Often Does Google Maps Update Satellite Images.” Many people use the satellite images to help them orient themselves in an area. Outdated images will raise a problem with the users orientating themselves.

Traveling can be a lot of fun, but it can also be stressful. Exploring new areas and roads can be relaxing and exciting. Things can turn around when people are up against time and have to be at a location by a particular time. Many people have schedules that they follow every day and have plans and have to be at places at certain times. To add to the stress, a mapping service could be down resulting in a person being overwhelmed and late. The stress of being places and then not knowing how to get to a location is a lot for someone to handle. One way that users could not be as stressed could be printing or looking at directions or a map before they leave. They could write down or memorize the directions. Another way could be having the user leave a few minutes earlier.

In a survey that I conducted, eight out of ten people do not have an atlas in their car. One of the participants said, “I have a GPS and phone, so I feel like I’m good.”Another member said, “my phone has never let me down, so I’m not worried.” One of the participants who has an atlas in their car said: “my phone and GPS have always worked, but I have an atlas from 2005 that is my third line of defense if need be.” At the conclusion of the survey, I presented my results to the participants and asked if they would start to carry an atlas in their cars and five of the eight said that they would. I asked the three members that stated that they would continue not to carry an atlas why they said that and one of them said: “My phone works wonderful and if I were ever to get lost, I'd figure something out like asking people nearby.” I later asked the participants about their phones dying, what would they do and a common answer I received was “I’ll plug in my phone to a charger, and I’ll be set.” After reviewing the survey, I was surprised to learn that so many people did not have an atlas. I thought a vast majority of individuals had at least one atlas in their cars.

Mapping services are excellent, but they have their problems like dying, non-updated maps, and stress. Many solutions are available to fix these problems; only time will tell how long they take.

<a title="Occupied" href="https://flickr.com/photos/dopey/6265136263">Occupied</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/dopey">~db~</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a> </small>

<a title="Roadie" href="https://flickr.com/photos/jarretthendrix/18862172489">Roadie</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/jarretthendrix">Jarrett Hendrix</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a> </small>

Works Cited
How Often Does Google Maps Update Satellite Images
https://www.techwalla.com/articles/how-often-does-google-maps-update-satellite-images
