---
layout: post
title: A look at Piracy
subtitle: An exclusive interview
bigimg: /img/CD.jpg
image: /img/Piracy.jpg
tags: [Piracy, Interview]
---
### TL;DR An interview from a friend about piracy and the comparison to the legal laws that are in placed today.

Many people have pirated software or music online by accident or on purpose. Some reasons could be to save money or have a new version before it is out. Nonetheless, digital information is being pirated all the time illegally. I conducted an interview with a friend about piracy and the effects.

**1) In your words, what is digital piracy?**
Downloading and sharing files that belong to someone else illegally.

**2) Do you think pirating software and music should be legal?**
I believe that piracy should be illegal, but the current laws could be altered, and people should be more aware of piracy.

**3) What do you think the biggest advantage of pirating software and music is?**
The most significant benefit is that you are getting the software and music for free.

**4) Do you think pirating software and music hurts the developer?**
I believe that it depends on the developer. If the developer is a small company, then yes because they are small and do not make a significant amount of money that can be offset by the lost. If the developer is a large company, then no because they take into account a percentage of lost money from piracy and they make a tremendous amount of money that it will not hurt them.

**5) Do you know of any laws in place to prevent piracy? If so, do you know the consequences?**
Yes, I know a lot of laws that are in place. I am aware that the FBI could sue people who pirate, people could get arrested or go to court and have to pay fines. The ISP, Internet Service Provider, could cut you off from the Internet.

**6) Are there any disadvantages to piracy from the piraters perspective?**
Some disadvantages are that the software could be less reliable or the source that you are using to get the software is less reliable. The software or music can also be harder to find and could take longer than it would take to download from iTunes or another source.

**7) Is the risk of pirating software or music worth the reward of getting the product?**
I believe that the risk is worth the reward because there is some art software out there that is super expensive and with a lot of art being created online, people could be at a disadvantage.

**8) Do you think piracy is a huge problem?**
Not as big as it’s made out to be.

**9) Why do you think people pirate software or music?**
A lot of the time, the software or music is expensive, so it’s cheaper to pirate the information. People also can get satisfaction out of pirating because they could listen to a free music provider but have to hear ads all the time, so when they pirate, they can get the same music without the ads.

**10) Do you know anyone who has been convicted of piracy?**
If, so what was there a consequence? I do not know anyone who has been sentenced, but I have heard about people who run Pirate Bay getting arrested or fined along with individuals who run torrent websites.

After the interview, I talked to my friend about some research that I conducted about piracy. I found a law, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998. This act is broken up into five titles, and in the third title, the Act states “a copy of a computer program in the course of maintaining or repairing” can be made, but then has to be deleted after the repair. This title in the act caught my eye because of the wording; it seems that someone can pirate the software to fix their computer and then delete it afterward. Another act that I found was the No Electronic Theft Act of 1997. This bill mentions that if an individual makes more than ten copies worth $2,500 or more within an 180-day period, they could receive up to five years in prison or $250,000 in fines and they would be charged with a felony. If an individual does not meet that, they would be accused of a misdemeanor and could spend up to one year in prison or up to $25,000 in fines. The penalties for both the felony and misdemeanor increase if a company is convicted. I was shocked to learn that the fines are a lot of money. My opinion on these laws is that they are super harsh and most people do not realize that pirated something. I think the offenses should be ranked and each time someone is convicted, the fines should go up, and the individual should take classes about piracy.

</small> <a title="piracy" href="https://flickr.com/photos/robotson/38443489">piracy</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/robotson">robotson</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC) license</a> </small>



</small> <a title="cd" href="https://flickr.com/photos/deanhochman/18865167474">cd</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/deanhochman">Dean Hochman</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>


Works cited
THE DIGITAL MILLENNIUM ACT OF 1998
https://www.copyright.gov/legislation/dmca.pdf
No Electronic Theft (NET) Act of 1997 (H.R. 2265)
https://www.copyright.gov/docs/2265_stat.html
