---
layout: post
title: Racing Through the Internet Auto Racing has Improved from Technology
bigimg: /img/SprintCar.jpg
image: /img/legend.jpg
tags: [race cars, technology]
---

### TL:DR Auto Racing has improved through technology

Over the years, racing has improved, either from the safety to the durability of parts. Early race cars of any type didn’t have roll cages or safety features. As time went on, racing organizations made roll cages standard. With the improvement, the racing became safer. The safety equipment that drivers wear also became safer with their fire retardant levels and the impact that helmets can take.

There is another side that improved, the use of technology in the cars. Electrical systems and components have been added to monitor the engine or other aspects of the race car or track. Years ago, people would set up their cars and race. Now, they can use digital scales to see percentages and weights of the car accurately. The numbers are critical because different numbers work for various tracks. A slightly higher of lower number would change how the car transfers its weight or how the car enters a corner or exits a corner. As time went on and the Internet came about, videos of racing were shared on social media. From the videos, people can study them and learn how opponents race and how their cars handle around the track. With the new knowledge, drivers can predict what an opponent will do on the track when they are racing against them. The electrical systems in cars are complex and compacted nowadays, but they run a variety of tasks and readings. A computer can be connected to the electrical systems to read what happened during a race or practice session. The system is recording how much fuel is going into the carburetors, how much braking is being used, the performance of the engine, and a few other tasks. To better understand how cars handle around a track, sensors can be hooked up to the car. As the car is racing around the track, the sensors gather data about the banking of the track and other information. From the information, a computer can simulate the car and track. Then with a program, the car and track can be set up, and someone could make changes to the car through the program and see how the car would react to the changes on the track. With this system, race teams can save money because they wouldn’t have to rent a track for as many hours. They would have a good idea of what to change.

I have used many methods above in my racing to help me. I have had friends videotape my races, and I will watch them over and over to see where I could improve. I will also watch the other competitors and see what they did. Digital scales have significantly improved the efficiency and precision of setting up my race cars. I have more confidence with the set up of my race car with the digital scales. I also use a Mychron, which is a device that records how fast around the track it takes me and the rpm’s of the engine during the lap. That information is very critical my race team because my lap times will tell me if I am close to other competitors. The rpm’s will tell me if I need to change the gear ratio of the engine. If I have too much or too little gear, the car will be slower, so I have to find the balance. There have been so many incidents where technology and software have made a positive impact in my life through racing. Either from watching videos to recording information, technology has improved my racing career.


<a title="Keith Kauffman Sprint Car Racing" href="https://flickr.com/photos/bantam10/5371659116">Keith Kauffman Sprint Car Racing</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/bantam10">Ted Van Pelt</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>

<a title="IMG_9467_1434" href="https://flickr.com/photos/63500961@N04/6087924191">IMG_9467_1434</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/63500961@N04">Photodad_ca</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-NC-ND) license</a> </small>
