---
layout: post
title: Productivity
subtitle:
bigimg: /img/phone.jpg
image: /img/Organize.jpg
tags: [Modern Technology, Unproductive]
---

### TL;DR Modern Technology is great, but being unproductive could be a result from it.

Modern technology has improved quickly in a short amount of time. The first computer was invented in 1832 and was huge, taking up a room. Nowadays, computers take up little space and have so much power to compute just about anything. Today’s smartphones are more powerful than the technology used in the Apollo 11 spacecraft. The iPhone 7 has anywhere from 32GB to 256GB, while the Apollo 11 had 64Kbyte of memory. The processors and internal components of the iPhone 7 are more way smaller than the ones on Apollo 11. This is astonishing that something such as an iPhone is stronger than something that took people into outer space.

Technology has been proven to perform amazing tasks just like Apollo 11, but there is a challenge of individuals being unproductive and wasting time. One example is when college students are working on homework, and their phone receives a notification. The majority of the students will stop what they are doing and check their phone. Thus, resulting in them not working on their homework and wasting time. Another example is when someone wants to complete chores or other activities, and they watch a movie or show instead. There are only 24 hours in a day and looking at a film or show is great, but not when a task should or have to be completed. Watching movies or shows instead of work is unproductive. Most of the time people will get distracted by texting, snap chatting, checking their Facebook or Instagram, and playing games on their phone or computer. This problem doesn’t relate to just college students, employees at companies can get distracted. The employees are paid to do their job, and when they’re not doing their job, the company is losing money, which isn’t good. Solutions are available and can be implemented.

At the same time that I believe getting distracted by modern technology is a problem, I also believe there are solutions. One, in particular, is to turn off all notifications or the phone in general. With having those off, people can focus on their work and not get distracted. Another solution would be downloading an app that locks people out of certain apps. Again, this is similar to turning out the phone or notifications, and people can focus on what’s at hand. Apps such as “Freedom-Reduce Distractions” and “Unplugged-Stop Your Phone Addiction” are two apps that could lock people out of websites or apps for a set amount of time. The third solution would be to work for an hour and then take a few minutes for a break to check whatever they want to check. This would give people’s minds a break, and it will also let them check whatever they would like such as social media or games. The final solution that could be implemented would be setting a goal system. This system would work by for every 30-60 minutes that a person doesn’t check their phone, they could get a reward of their choice. Rewards might be a piece of candy, a can of soda, chips, pretzels, or anything along those lines. This solution is fun because people get something out of completing homework or any task and it’s a confidence booster. All the people that I talked to like to receive rewards and they are happier, so getting a snack of some sorts is a good thing. The fifth and final solution is for companies not to allow their employees to use phones. Employers could have their employees put all their phones in their lockers or a common place. If an employee is found to be using their phone while working, the company could take away their phone. Employees wouldn’t have the whole day without their phones, and they could use them during their lunch break or if there is a dangerous situation that requires them to be on their phone, such as waiting to hear back from a doctor or if a family member is hurt. All of these solutions could be implemented, but I wanted to ask a few friends about them.

I interviewed two friends about what he thinks on this topic. The first friend said, “I totally agree, I get distracted all of the time and what should only take me an hour to do will take me two hours or more.” He then mentioned how he was working on a writing assignment and he had to look up a video on YouTube. After he had finished the video, he was about to go back to writing, but saw an interesting video on the recommended side and clicked on it. This occurred numerous times, and he ended up wasting an hour looking at irrelevant videos. The second friend said, “This is ridiculous, who can’t put their phone away and not use it for a few hours at a time?” I agree with my friend because I do get distracted and it will take me longer to do the task. An example is writing this article, I had a decent part of this completed but then I received a text from a friend, and we started texting, and I also checked my social media accounts. Next thing I knew, I was doing this for thirty minutes. In that time wasted, I could have written a lot more and completed this sooner. I then asked my two friends about the solutions that I created. The first friend likes the idea of setting a goal with snacks. He said, “I love to eat, so when I can accomplish a task and get to eat, it’s a win-win.” My other friend thinks that the solutions will work because she leaves her phone in a different room and can get all of her work done. She also can’t fathom how people get distracted so easily. I mentioned to her that it might be because they don’t want to do the assignment, but they have or that they can’t think or get stuck and the break helps them, but it’ll take longer.



<a title="Smart Phone" href="https://flickr.com/photos/xjs-khaos/4651333176">Smart Phone</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/xjs-khaos">Xjs-Khaos</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY-SA) license</a> </small>

<a title="Productivity" href="https://flickr.com/photos/otherjoel/230656948">Productivity</a> flickr photo by <a href="https://flickr.com/people/otherjoel">J Dueck</a> shared under a <a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/">Creative Commons (BY) license</a> </small>



Works Cited
Apple's Website
https://www.apple.com/iphone/
Apollo 11 The computers that put the man on the moon
http://www.computerweekly.com/feature/Apollo-11-The-computers-that-put-man-on-the-moon
